　　【来源：考试吧】
　　Section A
　　Directions: In this section, you will hear 10 short conversations. At the end of each conversation, a question will be asked about what was said. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After each question there will be a pause. During the pause, you must read the four choices marked A), B), C) and D), and decide which is the best answer. Then mark the corresponding letter on the Answer Sheet with a single line through the center.
　　Example: You will hear: A) At the office B) In the waiting room C) At the airport D) In a restaurant
　　From the conversation we know that the two were talking about some work they have to finish in the evening. This conversation is most likely taking place at the office. Therefore, A) “At the office” is the best answer. You should choose [A] on the Answer Sheet and mark it with a single line through the center. Sample Answer [A] [B] [C] [D]
　　1. A) She doesn't like the collar.
　　B) She doesn't like silk.
　　C) She doesn't like white dresses.
　　D) She doesn't think it's her size.
　　2. A) The scene of the old man's death shocked her.
　　B) The scene of the old man's death frightened her.
　　C) The scene of the old man's death moved her.
　　D) The scene of the old man's death upset her.
　　3. A) She didn't get what she wanted.
　　B) She was given a vegetable salad.
　　C) She found the fruit not fresh enough.
　　D) She had been overcharged.
　　4. A) Jim must have copied from John.
　　B) He doesn't seem to like the two compositions.
　　C) John must have copied from Jim.
　　D) One must have copied from the other.
　　5. A) They want to wear special clothes.
　　B) They want other people to watch them dance.
　　C) They want to celebrate their festivals.
　　D) They want to enjoy themselves.
　　6. A) $40. C) $30.
　　B) $25. D) $14.
　　7. A) An experienced nurse. C)The man's old friend.
　　B) A shop assistant. D) Secretary of a company.
　　8. A) Jane is sick. C) Jane won't come.
　　C) Jane is with her sister. D) Jane will call back this morning.
　　9. A) She has to take the final exams.
　　B) She has to get her paper done.
　　C) She'll celebrate her 25th birthday.
　　　D) She will practice typing.
　　10. A) Taking a rest. C) Making a purchase.
　　B) Paying a visit. D) Making an appointment.
　　Section B Compound Dictation
　　注意：听力理解B节（Compound Dictation）为复合式听写（Compound Dictation），题目在试卷二上，现在请取出试卷二。
　　Part II Reading Comprehension (35 minutes)
　　Directions: There are 4 passages in this part. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C)and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter on the Answer Sheet with a single line through the centre.
　　Passage One
　　Questions 21 to 25 are based on the following passage:
　　When we state our opinions in informal situations, we often give little or no evidence to support them: “John is a reckless driver.” “The cost of living is going up every day.” “Divorce is the main cause of juvenile delinquency(青少年犯罪).”This does not mean that we have no good reasons for believing as we do, but simply that our reasons are usually known and accepted by our listeners. On occasions when our opinions are questioned, we may attempt to support them with facts drawn from our experience and reading: “John had two accidents last month, and he always drives too fast.” “Steak is up sixty cents a pound, and a refrigerator costs almost twice as much today as it did six years ago.” “Psychologists say that emotional stability depends on a secure family life.” Such evidence is considered acceptable or even convincing in informal situations, usually because the listener’s personal regard for the speaker lends some weight to the evidence.
　　In writing, however, the relationship with your audience is far more impersonal; authority must rest much more on the facts themselves. Readers who know neither John nor you will want to know what kind of accidents John had and who was at fault; they will wonder whether “too fast” means in excess of speed limits, they might suspect that “always” is an exaggeration. Before accepting your opinion in regard to the relation between divorce and delinquency, they may want to hear what psychologists say in their own words to be sure that you are not misinterpreting their remarks or ignoring opposed opinions.
　　The more facts supporting your opinion that you can gather from experience or from the written statements of others, the more reasons you can give your readers to accept that opinion. You will probably not be able to present absolute proof, but the greater the weight of your evidence, the more probable it will seem to them that your belief is the best one.
　　21. When we state our opinions in informal situations, evidence is often missing because _____.
　　A) we are unable to provide any evidence
　　B) we assume that it is clear without explanation
　　C) we are free from misjudgment
　　D) we are friends with our listeners
　　22. Usually, such evidence as provided in the first paragraph becomes more convincing if ___ .
　　A) the speaker emphasizes it several times B) the speaker shows great interest in it
　　C) the listener trusts the speaker D) the listener has secure family life
　　23. In writing, the statement “John is a reckless driver” is best supported by the sentence _____.
　　A) “He drives at 80 miles per hour every day”
　　B) “He drives very fast on his way to work”
　　C) “He is always careless when he drives on the highway”
　　D) “He has had several accidents this year”
　　24. Talking about psychology, a writer can convince his readers best with _______.
　　A) psychologists' original words B) other people's opposed opinions
　　C) his own remarks D) explanations for quoting psychologists
　　25. The writer of this passage is probably lecturing on a topic concerning _________.
　　A) interpersonal relationship B) modern American life
　　C) psychology D) writing
　　Passage Two
　　Questions 26 to 30 are based on the following passage:
　　A scientist who does research in economic psychology and who wants to predict the way in which consumers will spend their money must study consumer behavior. He must obtain data both on resources of consumers and on the motives that tend to encourage or discourage money spending.
　　If an economist were asked which of three groups borrow most, people with rising incomes, stable incomes, or declining incomes--he would probably answer: those with declining incomes. Actually, in the years 1947--1950, the answer was: people with rising incomes. People with declining incomes were next and people with stable incomes borrowed the least. This shows us that traditional assumptions about earning and spending are not always reliable. Another traditional assumption is that if people who have money expect prices to go up, they will hasten to buy. If they expect prices to go down, they will postpone buying. But research surveys have shown that this is not always true. The typical attitude was expressed by the wife of a mechanic in an interview at a time of rising prices, "In a few months, " she said, "we'll have to pay more for meat and milk; we'll have less to spend on other things." Her family had been planning to buy a new car but they postponed this purchase. Furthermore, the rise in prices that has already taken place may be resented and buyer's resistance may be evoked. This is shown by the following typical comment: "I just don't pay these prices; they are too high."
　　The investigations mentioned above were carried out in America. Investigations conducted at the same time in Great Britain, however, yielded results that were more in agreement with traditional assumptions about saving and spending patterns. The condition most conducive(有助于) to spending appears to be price stability. If prices have been stable and people consider that they are reasonable, they are likely to buy. Thus, it appears that the common business policy of maintaining stable prices is based on a correct understanding of consumer psychology.
　　26. It can be inferred from the passage that if one wants to predict the way consumers will spend their money, he should ________.
　　A) rely on traditional assumptions about earning and spending
　　B) try to encourage or discourage consumers to spend money
　　C) carry our investigations on consumer behavior and obtain data on consumers' incomes and money spending motives
　　D) do researches in consumer psychology in a laboratory
　　27. According to Paragraph 2, research surveys have proved that ________.
　　A) price increases always stimulate people to hasten to buy things
　　B) rising prices may make people put off their purchase of certain things
　　C) women are more sensitive to the rising in prices than men
　　D) the expectations of price increases often make buyers feel angry
　　28. The results of the investigations on consumer psychology carried out in America were ________ those of the investigations made at the same time in Great Britain.
　　A) somewhat different from
　　B) exactly the same as
　　C) much better than
　　D) not as good as
　　29. From the results of the surveys, the writer of this article ________.
　　A) concludes that the saving and spending patterns in Great Britain are better than those in America.
　　B) concludes that the consumers always expect prices to remain stable
　　C) concludes that maintaining stable prices is a correct business policy
　　D) does not draw any conclusion
　　30. Which of the following statements is always TRUE according to the surveys mentioned in the passage?
　　A) Consumers will put off buying things if they expect prices to decrease.
　　B) Consumers will spend their money quickly if they expect prices to increase.
　　C) The price condition has an influence on consumer behavior.
　　D) Traditional assumptions about earning and spending are reliable.
　　Passage Three
　　Questions 31 to 35 are based on the following passage.
　　About six years ago I was eating lunch in a restaurant in New York City when a woman and a young boy sat down at the next table, I couldn't help overhearing parts of their conversation. At one point, the woman asked: "So, how have you been?" And the boy